---
layout:     post
title:      Paul and Linda McCartney’s RAM
date:       2014-06-08 11:21:29
summary:    There's an elephant of insight in the evolution of RAM's public reception. 
categories: music
---

There's an elephant of insight in the evolution of RAM's public reception. 

In 1971 it received almost universal disdain, or at best, indifference. The Beatles had just divorced in a high profile, emotional way. Truly objective journalism is nearly impossible on its own. In a context spiked with fandom that runs so deep it's indistinguishable from ones identity, it's already out the window. So when the rest of the band says things like: 
> "I feel sad about Paul's albums ... I don't think there's one good tune on the last one, Ram ... he seems to be going strange." 
you know that ship has already sailed. Unfortunately for Paul and Linda, the bandwagon o the hottest ticket. 

Im not an expert on the psychology of pop listenership, or band politics (although, well, possibly) so I'm going to really love reading a musicologist parse the deeper meaning here in another 20 years.

For now, one thing is pretty clear: if 'Ram On' were never recorded, the past 15-20 years of pop would have been completely different. I would dare say even more so than if we never got Pet Sounds, et cetera. 

Until we develop a creative robot to model outcomes like this by writing a million original songs we will never know whether that difference is good or bad. Regardless, there's no shortage of quality jams in either parallel universe, and the influences this record provided (or the inverse) is totally fine with me. 

More on this soon...